Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be making the components themselves actually report what kind of cursor they want.
So we still have the attack cursor if we hover over an enemy.
But now if we hover over a pickup we get a new pickup cursor that is being reported by that component
itself.
Let's dive in and see how we can achieve this.
So what we'd like to do is have an recast cast ball decide what kind of cursor it is going to be so
that we have the right sorts of cursor affords.
Now to do this we're gonna have to add in another method and the job of that method is going to be to
return the type of cursor that we need for this particular right countable.
Now to do that we're going to have to return the type of cursor type which is going to be an error for
now but we'll fix it in a second so type will be the return type and we'll just call the method get
cursor type and it doesn't need to take any arguments.
All it's going to do is very basically ask that request for what type of cursor should I be giving you.
Now what we've got to do here is extract that cursor type which currently I believe lives in the player
controller.
So if we look in the player controller we have the cursor type enum which is inside the player controller.
And if I cut that out I want to put it in to our recast Bill namespace the same namespace as I write
Haskell so let's have a look.
We have got our control and we want to add to control a cursor type dot.
So yes.
And then to this file I can just paste our E name.
Now I do want it to be actually inside namespace.
So it's going to be namespace RPG dot control and it's gonna be the cursor type.
So this enum is now standalone and I'm going to make a public enum because we want it to be usable in
public methods.
So the cursor type can now successfully be used in AI right Castile.
So your challenge is going to be to show the correct cursor on the basis of this new addition into our
ray Castille so implement the interface and all the classes that are currently implementing it such
as the pick and combat et cetera then get the correct cursor in the player controller using the interface
and make any changes necessary to allow the pickup cursor to be different post video and have a go at
this challenge okay.
Welcome back.
So let's dive in and first of all see where we might be getting some errors.
For example I would expect that our weapon pick up is giving us an error because the IRA Cassel doesn't
include everything it doesn't implements everything.
So let's implement the interface fully and it should give us this get cursor type.
And now we have to do is very simply return the cursor type that we want to have here.
And as it's a weapon pickup we want a cursor type dot pickup.
But notice we do not have a dot pickup it's giving us an error.
So I can't do a controlled dot to generate the enum member.
You could also do it manually if you go and have a look you enum.
Now it has added pickup to the end of the list.
So it's another cursor type that we could add configuration and cursor setup for.
That's good.
Cool.
So we've got an get cursor type working on pickup.
And as for using it in the play control dot see yes.
Well currently we're setting just the cursor type of combat when we interact with the component.
What we really want to do here is query the right testable for the cursor type.
They actually want.
So right Constable dots and then get cursor type should just return as the cursor type that we want
and we can set that one whenever a component can handle the particular recast.
So the other place that I know we're gonna have a problem is with our combat target.
So let's go over to the combat target and I've just refreshed with doing a control shift P and reload
window because I was getting a bit funny not not really having intelligence working properly.
So I'm going to go ahead and implement the interface but I write Castile just to add in the get cursor
and I'm going to go ahead and return.
This time it's going to be cursor type cursor type dots and then it's going to be combat so with the
combat targets cursor type set and also with the weapon pick up I think has fixed our to recast pools
and that should mean that if I go ahead and hit play when I hover over the enemy I get the attack cursor
and I hover over the movement area.
I get the movement cursor if I hover over the pickups though I get the X which is not quite what I want.
Hover over UI I get UI so that's all good.
Now the one thing is hovering over the pickups which I don't think currently is looking good.
So what I want to do is go into my player prefab and go and find the player controller.
And I want to add a new mapping in here so I'm going to duplicate it from combat and the mapping is
gonna be for the pickup and then we're gonna go and find ourselves an asset that we want for cursor.
So I'm going to go in to the pixel curses cursor folder and have a look at what we've got in terms of
things that look like pickups.
So there's quite a few here I'm just gonna bring it out into icon view so we can see a little bit more
clearly so the one I'm gonna choose is that this little brief.
KC one song going to select the player go down two again to the mappings and I'm gonna put this little
briefcase a one over the pickup.
So now what should happen is if I go ahead and hit play and hover over pickups I get a different pickup
icon as opposed to the attack icon so to recap what we've done is we've given the components a way of
reporting what kind of cursor they require so that we can add extra curses quite easily just by basically
changing the enum and changing the class that we are implementing it with.
This would allow us for example to do curses for opening doors if we had a door component that responds
to the irate cast but then we can easily add another door into the enum and have a curse type for that
C.
There's even a cursor here for your door so you could try that as a challenge for yourselves.
Now in the next lecture we're going to look at a weird issue that you might come up against.
If you have one Ray Haskell object in front of another and you actually end up clicking on the item
that's behind rather in front.
So we can look at Ray cast sorting and why that problem comes up in the first place.
See in that lecture.